the UN Human Rights office says it's
received allegations of what could be a
war crime by Israeli forces in Gaza says
it's received information alleging
Israeli forces executed at least 11
unarmed Palestinians in front of their
families in Northern Gaza Israeli forces
allegedly stormed the Residential
Building then separated the men from the
women and
children the incident happened at the
Anan building where civilians were
Sheltering the UN is calling for an
investigation into the allegations Val
Jer spoke to several
eyewitnesses they stormed the building
they forced their entry into residential
Flats they dedicated bombs in the lower
levels I live on the sixth floor I
opened my door and switched the lights
on they sto my house I told them we were
a family a household of civilians they
saw us men and their wives and children
my brother-in-law tried to speak and
explain all in the house are civilians
but they shot him dead
after that they rounded the men up and
the women in the opposite house then the
Israeli soldiers opened fire on all the
men they told the women to stay in the
other side then they were sh by a tank
from
outside the Israeli soldiers stormed our
block of flights they forced their way
into every home killed the men and
detained the women and children we do
not know their whereabouts they did the
same on every floor all women were
rounded up in one room by the time they
reached us on the sixth floor they
started shooting all the men my
father-in-law and his son were shot they
died instantly the Israelis killed them
we kept the door open and did not show
any resistance we kept the lights on as
soon as the Israeli soldiers stormed our
house they started shooting men then
firing at the walls women were grabbed
by the hair rounded up other young
children were stripped of their clothes
and forced to their knees all women were
kept on the fourth floor and ordered to
remove their hair coverings after that
they took all of the men downstairs
still naked then they opened fire killed
them all executed them in Cold Blood
after that an order was given for the
tanks a mortar shell was fired on all
the women on the fourth floor a young
girl was killed my two daughters and
female neighbors were injured the
Israeli soldiers rounded up all the
women in one room then fired three
mortar shells at us then kept shooting
their machine guns at us before that
they stormed our house and opened fire I
was hit with a bullet in my hand my
daughter in her head my younger daughter
was killed and my son is blind my
husband was executed in Cold Blood all
my other daughters suffered severe
injuries broken bones and flesh torn
open we were all hit by bullets and
shrapnel I have been bleeding all over
since 5:00 on Tuesday well joining us
here in the studio now is Tamar Kut he's
an assistant professor of public policy
at The daha Institute for Graduate
Studies good to have you with us so
listening to those statements by
eyewitnesses very disturbing stories and
eyewitness account counts hmer right uh
horrifying Sammy horrifying to watch
this and um at the same time so
astonishing and frustrating for us not
to see the IC acting when it comes to
this crime and the hundreds of other
crimes that are being committed on daily
basis in Gaza and they go undocumented
as well because of limited access or for
press and media as well and some of them
actually have been documented though
right because this is not the first time
if we think back to December the 13th
and discovery of 15 Bodies In shadia Abu
gazala school not the first time there
are allegations and eyewitness testimony
talking about summary execution of
civilians exactly Samy so in reality we
have amble or enough evidence for any
any objective neutral IC to immediately
carry start an independent investigation
on these crimes but we still don't see
this happening and this question
questions the entire neutrality of the
organization and and it's now it's I
mean obviously it's it's accused of
being complicit in this situation
because when we see the conduct of IC
why is the ICC not moving is that to do
with political pressure and the balance
of power in the world I think it has to
do with political pressure and and its
legitimacy is being eroded now
drastically because it is uh complying
to political pressure and and and the
the one way to look at it is it's the
conduct of ICC in Ukraine I mean ICC had
no access to occupied parts of Ukraine
uh and had no access to Russia as well
and and they managed to open an
investigation and issue an an arrest
warrant against Putin for what for the
unlawful deportation transfer of
children from occupied Parts in Ukraine
to Russia and this this children are
safe and they remain safe and many of
them have returned to their families
after Qatar has intervened and the Saudi
Arabia has intervened in ranging that
deal for the return but he was still
indicted exactly and with all what's
happening in Gaza you have you have Al
jaer is there so many new agencies are
there you have testimonies from citizens
of Gaza you have like mountains of
evidence in the Gaza to your point Tam
let's think back a year ago when there
were allegations of uh massacres war
crimes in
Ukraine this is what we heard from some
of the world leaders like the US
Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin Russian forces also open fire on
10 civilians uh who were waiting in line
uh for
bread these incidents uh joined a long
list of attacks on civilian not military
locations across Ukraine including
apartment buildings public squares and
last week a maternity hospital in
marapole
uh I doubt that any of us who saw those
images will ever forget them yesterday
President Biden said that in his opinion
war crimes have been committed in
Ukraine personally I
agree Mr President after everything
we've seen are you ready to call pu a
war criminal
no a war criminal sir oh I I think he is
a war criminal you beting with
so very clear statements from the US
president to the US Secretary of State
even calling Putin a war criminal and
you've got to ask the question is there
some connection there between what the
US says and does and what the ICC
prosecutor Karim Khan feels he's able to
do of course of course I mean this is
what we see here is um uh politicizing
International laws and uh and and and
the IC now has so many questions to
answer to the larger Globe you know so
many countries who have become signator
of the ICC now and then they see this
mis unethical conduct and politicizing
the work of the the court itself and and
and and and there are so many questions
to be asked to the IC now I mean it's
it's uh its position it's neutrality
it's it it's it's it's it has been
damaged demolished totally on the global
stage because what we see in Gaza now
it's it's uh it's I mean I mean Karim
Khan went on his last visit to the
Egyptian borders and he claimed that he
has no access Israel denied him access
to the Gaza Strip but still it does not
they should not stop the IC from
starting collecting evidence he even
urged Palestinians and I called him he
said I urge everyone to collect and
provide us with any evidence you have on
on such crimes and I mean I mean I mean
the these crimes are being Ed they're
being AED on TV now you can watch them
by alaz and many entities what else does
he want what is that didn't stop your
argument is that didn't stop the ICC in
Ukraine from
filing without having to the actual
location of exactly the crime scene all
right thank you so much
Tamm